Student Performance Insights


Insights:
Which gender scores higher on average?
On average, females score higher than males for holistic, but interestingly, males peform better on math on average the female, but the same is not the case 
for reading & writing scores. Also students who completed pratice training, had performed better than students who hadn't, which makes sense. 
But using, the filter I found soemthing interesting, for female bachelor level students, they performed better than there male couter parts in math.
Even more with masters combined. I didn't know that more females completed master's degree, which i can def see.

How do parental education levels affect scores?
Subjects with the highest and lowest scores.

Masters students peform the best and Some high school the poorest, the median in this dataset, would be assoicate degree, 
which may helps immenseley with writing litercaury rates. Getting your assoicates degrees, is amazing way to do another modes of higher education. 
From Bacheler Degree to Master Degree, for writing scores, it changes ranks, possible due to students specailizing deeper in there masters. You write more researchs or thesis
when your master students. The difference from bachelors too masters are not too far off, making a bacheleors a very reasonable point.
The math scores, grew the slowest on average, between all the parental educations

What gender performed the best in terms of score on average??
Females performed the best on average in terms of scorce. 77.29 & 78.38, in reading & writing, compared to males 68 or 67. Though males outperformed them in math. 
A hypotesis, that I have is that more females, go do there masters, compared to males.

Who performed the best based on the basis of degree of education

Master students performed best basis on degree, but assoicates & bachelrs students are doing quite well as well are performing effectivley on there exams.

Who scored the best in which section??

77.29 & 78.38, in reading & writing, compared to males 68 or 67.











How did economic factor influence there scoreces

Students, with easier acess to food performed better all around. Just having better acesss to food improved there scorces by 12+ points.
.

